---
category: "Before Tangle"
cover: ""
slug: '/blog/paradox-of-freedom'
date: '2018-04-26'
title: 'Paradox of Freedom'
subtitle: 'A Conversation Started by Julian'
author: 'Julian, Cole and Myles'
tags: ['Inputs', 'Outputs']
---

Source: [The Paradox of Freedom: The Great Humanistic Philosopher and Psychologist Erich Fromm on Moral Aloneness and Our Mightiest Antidote to Terror](https://www.brainpickings.org/2018/04/17/erich-fromm-escape-from-freedom/)

## Julian Griggs

**Summary:**

Erich Fromm's thesis is that freedom is a state which we are simultaneously drawn towards and pushed away from. The reason is that freedom satisfies an intellectual desire while leaving emotional desires unfilled. Specifically, we are drawn to its promise of individualistic expression and the promise of free will, but as society as changed to allow us to experience these boons, the dark side of freedom reveals itself in the form of alienation and isolation. Fromm argues that this feeling of isolation is one our core fears as human beings and explains why we often flee from freedom in search of submission (whether this be a dictator or a belief system like religion or nationalism). In a society where the individual is celebrated, it is easy for us to lose contact with the connective tissue between people, which he argues is counter to our evolutionary development. For Fromm, there are only two ways to combat this wave of isolation: love and work. By explicitly loving fellow mankind, you are able to forcibly situate yourself in a social context which we crave as humans, and by deeply engaging with work we are able to find purpose.

**Quotations**

"Modern man still is anxious and tempted to surrender his freedom to dictators of all kinds, or to lose it by transforming himself into a small cog in the machine, well fed, and well clothed, yet not a free man but an automaton."

"This lack of relatedness to values, symbols, patterns, we may call moral aloneness and state that moral aloneness is as intolerable as the physical aloneness, or rather that physical aloneness becomes unbearable only if it implies also moral aloneness… Religion and nationalism, as well as any custom and any belief however absurd and degrading, if it only connects the individual with others, are refuges from what man most dreads: isolation."

**My Thoughts**

I find the idea that isolation is humanity's biggest fear to be extremely compelling. When I walk down the streets of San Francisco and see all the homeless, it isn't their poverty, their hunger, or their filth that saddens me the most -- it is their loneliness. This extends to the elderly as well. To me, there is nothing more heart wrenching than contemplating being old and alone in the world, with no friends or family left to care for me or for me to care for. That's why, on a personal level, I totally agree with this notion that isolation is our biggest dread. What's fascinating to consider is how the battle between an emotional fear of isolation and an intellectual commitment to free thought can play out. I like to think that I would choose to act upon my own intellectual beliefs even if it would lead to social alienation but I can't think of a time when I've come to this crossroads. Fromm's use of the holocaust as an example of this is striking, and terrifying, in that it is a case of an entire generation of people acquiescing to an immoral ideology because of a fear of isolation. I believe that this idea is also at the core of mob-mentality and I imagine it goes back to our evolutionary past. For the vast majority of human evolution, there very literally was safety in numbers (much less likely to survive a lion attack if you are in a group of 100 then if you are alone) and I believe that people today still default to this mode of operation when confronted with "danger". Like many aspects of our evolutionary past, this default operating mode is not something that we can easily shrug off. However, recognition is the first step on the way to change and hopefully through deliberate, conscious effort, we can resist our evolutionary instincts in favor of rational thought.

## Myles McGinley

Cameron said something yesterday: "humans are really just computers: we ingest inputs and produce outputs. The quality of the inputs informs the quality of those outputs." The inputs include obvious physical matter like food, liquids, and drugs and the non-physical, like what we read, watch and listen to. Feeding our computers with the best inputs leads us to create outputs that are transmitted to, and ingested by, the next nodes in our network. Those nodes process the input and produce outputs - this process can then be repeated infinitum!

With the frame of inputs and outputs in mind, I can dive into what I want to add to the conversation.

"I find the idea that isolation is humanity's biggest fear to be extremely compelling," says Julian. I totally agree. I hate feeling alone, both physically and mentally. In fact, at a micro level, I feel we are continuously being shaped by our surroundings subconsciously. The physical ones to some extent, but the inputs that have the biggest impact are from the people nodes to which we are both physically and mentally closest. You see this pattern play out in relationships and close friends very often. Hell, I find myself thinking and saying things similar to my current roommates all the time.

In the Nazi Germany context, the government used a barrage of propaganda, grassroots events, and other high-touch outputs to stuff the Aryan German population's feeds with racist inputs. These inputs became outputs at the micro peer to peer level and the feedback loop began. Friends talked to friends who talked to other friends who talked to other friends. The rhetoric and propagandist media from the furher/ Nazi party was the initial input, but the most significant factor in the dissemination of Nazism came from the second order inputs and outputs that were transmitted between people nodes. Rather scary in relation to the current state of American politics and the liberal/conservative propaganda machines.

Maintaining complete intellectual autonomy and freedom of thought is to some extent almost impossible, I think. We cannot help but be influenced by our inputs - particularly those that are the outputs of our closest peers.

How do we control these inputs in the age of ubiquitous information? It would seem we only really have control over the cluster of nodes surrounding us, which is most important anyway. We weigh the information transmitted to us from the nodes closest in proximity highest. To me, concentrating on curating a cluster of nodes around you that 1. ingest quality inputs (and subsequently produce quality outputs) and 2. seek constructive disagreement and active reflection is paramount and really all we can do. I also believe that thinking about it this way makes the two poles of diamagnetic freedom: submission and isolation, mean something slightly different... Submit to a system in which the status quo is forcing growth. If you choose to "break free" from it, you are choosing scary isolation in comfortability.

I think we all want to submit to a structure around us that makes our outputs higher quality. I think that is hard because we have to make immediately painful decisions to curate our clusters/inputs. It also takes work. This is a classic disagreement between the [elephant and the rider](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X9KP8uiGZTs).

For me, its the decision to leave New York, the group of friends I built there, and the decision to leave my cushy 6 figure job. The act of transplanting my node in the middle of this cluster has some immediately painful consequences (obviously not the most painful because we are all friends from college - but point still stands), but I think I have steered my elephant accordingly, for I tangibly feel my outputs increasing in quality: working out in the morning, attempting to write this post, writing notes on brainpickings articles, moving my Instagram app icon to the second page of my home screen and replacing it with a fact-of-the-day app, buying a Kindle. These outputs are of higher quality than my outputs a year ago or even a few months ago.

I have a lot more to say on the matter - particularly around how the culture of a cluster can change and how I think you control it, but I will leave that for another time. These posts are going to get too long for their own good.

### Cole McCracken

I have a different perspective on this.

While I agree physical aloneness is scary, I do not think I am afraid of moral aloneness. Fromm picks out specifically unique "ideas, values, or social patterns" as part of the definition of moral aloneness. I would like to stipulate that I am including the discussion of those items as part of physical connection, while the actual values and ideas held would be bucketed under moral connection. My underlying belief is that Fromm is mistaking a desire for moral connection with laziness. It is hard to define for yourself unique values, ideas and social patterns that are consistent with one another, and people resort to community beliefs simply because its easier.

I would certainly agree that every person and his or her values are impacted by the environment.

### Julian Griggs

Myles, I like that you touched on the difficulty/near impossibility of maintaining complete intellectual autonomy at all times. As you say, the number of inputs we are subjected to is overwhelming and their ability to influence our thought patterns is both striking and surprising. For an illuminating discussion of how tech companies make use of this fact, read [this essay by Tristan Harris](https://www.google.com/url?hl=en&q=http://www.tristanharris.com/essays/&source=gmail&ust=1524939753661000&usg=AFQjCNHLQ_NAmsD9Ajj1TUvX1zDIdBe2RA). Pulling ideas from [Thinking Fast and Slow](https://www.google.com/url?hl=en&q=https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00555X8OA/ref%3Ddp-kindle-redirect?_encoding%3DUTF8%26btkr%3D1&source=gmail&ust=1524939753661000&usg=AFQjCNGWlT6cHUwbRI9onWUIqBeCYmqFyg), it simply requires too much mental vigilance to be constantly filtering and critically analyzing your inputs, which is why our System 1 is so active. With this in mind, I think you are spot on in asserting that of prime practical importance is making the conscious decision about the people you surround yourself with. While important to reevaluate periodically, I agree that spending deliberate mental effort to choose the primary contributors to your inputs has a very high return on investment.

Cole, I want to explore your ideas of laziness and the difficulty of mental consistency a bit more. I actually agree that intellectual laziness is a contributor to default conformity. As you said, it's difficult (very) to truly come to any belief solely through internal reasoning. Even as we have this discussion focused very specifically on individual rational thought, I realize that the lens through which I'm analyzing this topic is the product of many other people's thoughts, the society I'm a part of, and the chance happenings of my life -- I can't even think for myself when I try to! Sure, this might be taking it to the extreme but I think it's reasonable to accept that we can't ever be totally independent of influence. That aside, I believe that laziness still needs to be examined. My inclination is to actually say that the laziness is the result of a fear of cognitive dissonance. As Popova nicely puts it, "we all like to see ourselves as autonomous agents of our own destiny." However, when we are forced to think for ourselves we can't help but find our minds littered with inconsistencies. Not only is this an extremely uncomfortable state to be in (I remember when I first rejected religion) but it calls into question our very rationality. The things we thought we knew, we suddenly are less sure of and in dramatic circumstances this can lead to a very real anguish (See my piece on Tolstoy's struggle to find meaning). I'm a pretty strong proponent of evolutionary psychology (maybe I need to re-examine that commitment from first principles) and through that lens I would argue that a preference for avoiding the exploration of our own mental inconsistencies could make a lot of sense (though [this article](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3622034/) calls that very idea into question).
