# 03/01/18

Dear Teammates,

Yesterday, Myles was watching a Stanford lecture by Sam Altman, President of Y Combinator. In this lecture, Sam noted that at companies with a strong culture, everyone at the company could communicate the company's priorities at any point in time. Everyone not only knows the mission but understands the collective focus at each moment. Because of that, each team member knows how their pieces fit into the bigger puzzle as well as which pieces to prioritize.

Last night, I pondered in my journal how we could plant the seeds of that type of culture today. The result of that pondering is this letter. At the beginning of each month, I will be composing a letter, like this one, that hopefully achieves the following goals:

* **Reflection**: Looking back on the last month, what are we achievements we are proud of and what are the failures we can learn and grow from?

* **Orientation**: Looking forward to the month ahead, what is our collective focus and what will we achieve?

With that in mind, I hope that what follows can begin to keep us marching to the beat of a common drum.

## Reflection

_Looking back on the last month, we can be proud of..._

* making key decisions about the architecture and technologies that we are going to use

* refining our thinking and honing our analysis of the market and core personas that we believe will value our product

* the growing sense of collective clarity around our mission and vision as well as how we plan to take our first steps getting there

_Looking back on the last month, we can learn and grow from..._

* following the recommendations of our lawyers without doing enough due diligence on our own. I need to do a better job of recognizing that even though someone is an expert, it does not mean they are right.

* failing to seek out negative feedback. After pitching or presenting our product to someone who ends up reacting positively, I often do not actively seek out negative feedback. In this way, I am not seeking out the thing that will help us grow most.

* failing to articulate the value I believe each of us is uniquely capable of bringing to the team. Myles and I discussed with regards to him being a non-technical founder of a software company. I intend to do a better job of communicating the value that I see each of us bringing to the table.

## Orientation

_Looking forward to the month ahead, we will focus on..._

* building the basic surface (list of captures) and capture (keyboard shortcut) functionality on the desktop client so that we can stop using the note-taking tools we are currently using to fake having our product

* visually testing our prototype designs with potential users to see if they are intuitive and delightful

* taking the necessary administrative steps to get the team working in the San Francisco office full time together

As they say, the best time to plant a tree is now. I hope this letter can help to grow a strong culture here at Tangle.

**Building our shared consciousness,**

Cam
