# 04/01/18

Dear Teammates,

As I ate lunch, before writing this letter, I watched [a TED talk by the historian and philosopher Olufemi Taiwo](https://www.ted.com/talks/oluf_mi_taiwo_why_africa_must_become_a_center_of_knowledge_again). The talk centers around making Africa a center of knowledge. One line stood out.

> We must find a way to make knowledge and its production sexy and rewarding; rewarding, not in the crass sense of moneymaking but in terms of making it worthwhile to indulge in the pursuit of knowledge, support the existence of knowledge-producing groups and intellectuals.

As we build Tangle to empower everyone to capture and connect thoughts to create big ideas, we are making knowledge and its production sexy and rewarding. I find the prospect of making this vision a reality to be incredibly inspiring.

With that in mind, I hope that what follows can help us make knowledge production sexy.

## Reflection

_Looking back at the last month, we can be proud of..._

* Cole committing to join full time as a founder, bringing with him his incredible intellect and ability to bring me back down to earth

* Myles taking the initiative to dive deep into the Evernote community to discover a treasure trove of insights in a place that it had not occurred to me to look.

* Minshew jumping on board as an advisor, bringing with him valuable startup experience as well [the best personal constitution](http://www.willminshew.com/2018/03/27/personal-constitutions/) I have ever read.

_Looking back at the last month, we can learn and grow from..._

* Julian not joining the team. This reminded me that there are many more factors than a compelling idea that go into a decision to commit to a project and showed me some of the challenges of attracting high-quality talent.

* concerns about the value-add of the task management system. I think that because I feel as though I gain value from it, I assumed that others were gaining similar value. I believe that the systems we put in place now should serve us all, allowing us to develop habits that scale to the needs of a growing team. Thus we need to put more thought into honing these systems, so they work for us as a whole.

* remaining an LLC until we have to convert to C-corp. Although I think we spent a lot of time spinning our wheels on this topic, I think that we learned a lot about corporate law, IP law, and tax implications. I think that this time put intothank learning will serve us incredibly well in the long run.

## Orientation

_Looking forward to the month ahead, we will focus on..._

* producing a version of the prototype that embodies the core functionality of our product as it relates to capturing and surfacing thoughts

* seeking out user feedback to test our assumptions, save engineering cycles, and hone our potential monetization strategies.

* getting to the point that we can use Tangle internally, as both an individual and group product, to better understand its value proposition in each setting

Tangle is truly beginning to materialize and it makes me incredibly excited to be so close to being able to use it.

**Building our shared consciousness,**

Cam

PS. Myles and I are incredibly excited to be making the move to our new home of San Francisco where we will have the full team full time out of our offices at 1111 Kearny St.
