# 05/01/18

Dear Teammates,

This month will be an exciting one. It is our coming out party. Hex Ventures has served its purpose. It is now Tangle time.

## Reflection

_Looking back at the last month, we can be proud of..._

* Cole taking the deep dive on Neo4j causal clusters, but more importantly being the type of person that is willing take deep dives even it means staring at logs and doing manual trial error for nearly two days.  

* producing a version of the Tangle,  that although obviously lacking,  was sufficiently functional to not only allow us to demo it in several meetings but led Myles to miss it when we accidentally wiped the database a week later.

* our work ethic as a team. It struck me when meeting with Jessie Inchauspe that she commented on being impressed with our focus and effort so early on even as we continue to iterate and hone our direction.

_Looking back at the last month, we can learn and grow from..._

* me giving up. Cole, Myles, and I were discussing the direction of Tangle. We had divergent views. Along the way, I gave up on my position in favor of theirs. Although it is constructive to come to recognize the superiority of others' views (I believe in strong beliefs held weakly), it is destructive to adopt those views because you are tired supporting your own. My body language made it clear to Cole and Myles that I was doing the latter. Lucky for me, they called me out on it. Hopefully, we can all be cognizant of when we are constructively adopting the views of others or destructively giving up on our own. Maybe hardest of all we can recognize when it is the right time to, as Bezos says, to "disagree and commit."

* me failing to recognize my own biases. We were discussing our ideal customer profile (ICP). I was hung up on the fact that the version we were learning toward included the ICP being an Evernote user. Since I am not an Evernote user, the idea that I would not be an ICP (even though I want Tangle so bad) was hard to wrap my head around. What I realized was that I very well could have been an Evernote user, I just happened to be a Moleskin user. If I were using Evernote instead of my Moleskins to capture my thoughts, I most certainly would have been on the side of Evernote users being our ICP. Sometimes it is hard to get out of your own shoes, but it is invaluable to take a moment to realize when your experience is biasing you. (We also realized at this moment that Evernote usage was merely a proxy for our ICP which is anyone who has developed a system for capturing their thoughts.)

* the good pitches and the not so good ones. At this point, we have pitched Tangle to close friends and strangers. We should take a moment to reflect on what has worked and what has not. Although there are many more, here are a few:

  * Mentioning YC as a reason to move to SF is not cool when you have not been accepted yet

  * Focusing on the connection first paradigm of Tangle seems to make it click for people

  * It is easy to get into a discussion of Tangle being a CRM if you focus too much on connecting people

  * The demo needs to include information that all parties are familiar with

## Orientation

_Looking forward to the month ahead, we will focus on..._

* attracting 100 alpha users for release by leveraging, among others things, Tiago's marketing channels

* completing the move away from our favorite holding company Hex Ventures and rebranding as Tangle

*  producing a version of Tangle that includes sessions, Evernote importing, and a full-text editor

**Building our shared consciousness,**

Cam
