# 06/01/18

Dear Teammates,

Culture is key. It is a recurring theme in the world of startups that the culture you establish early on will come to haunt or help you as the business scales. Although we have spent significant time thinking about the culture we are creating, reading *Brotopia* by Emily Chang this past month helped highlight some critical issues.

Regardless of our intentions, as a company started by three white males from an elite university, we have implicit biases that experience has baked into our system. These biases can lead to cultural pitfalls that plague business across Silicon Valley. 

As we continue building this company and its culture, we must be vigilant. We must strive to have a heightened sense of awareness towards these issues and take collective action when, whether intentionally or not, we act in ways that do not foster inclusivity. Without this, we cannot expect to build a product that empowers *everyone* to capture and connect thoughts to create big ideas.

## Reflection

*Looking back at the last month, we can be proud of...*

- Myles developing a competitive landscape that has influenced the conversation about knowledge management solutions on the Evernote forums. This is just the beginning of Tangle becoming a thought leader in the knowledge management space.
- By bringing Andrew Choi on to the team (albeit temporarily for now), we continue to attract smart, talented, and genuinely good people to engage and work with us. The people we draw to work with us is a reflection of our team and the challenge we are taking on. I think this is a positive reflection. 
- Surpassing our goal of having 100 alpha user sign-ups by the end of May. It is essential to recognize the incremental progress we are making as we achieve our goals.

*Looking back at the last month, we can learn and grow from...*

- *Brotopia*. Although we have had valuable conversations on the topic, we need to push ourselves to take actions that ensure we don't slip into the common pitfalls outlined in this book and instead become an example for positive culture in the technology industry. Whether that means taking time to continue the dialogue, dedicating ourselves to trying to hire outside of our network, or drafting a code of conduct, I think it is important to see a tangible outcome.
- our meeting with Mathew Brennan, a partner at General Catalyst. Myles and I felt that having an engaging conversation and update was enough to have a productive meeting. This is not the case. In meetings, we need to be prepared with expected action items for all parties involved. The goal of a meeting is to facilitate executing those action items.
- GDPR. At all times we need to be conscious about how we are handling our users' data. It must be a priority not only to keep it secure but understand that it is their data, not ours. 

## Orientation

*Looking forward to the month ahead, we will focus on...*

- Executing on releasing the alpha version of Tangle to our first set of users
- Develop mechanisms to generate feedback from our first set of users that informs how we design and develop the product in meaningful ways
- Hone our ability to pitch and sell our product not only to users but to investors as we move closer to potentially seeking to raise money

**Building our shared consciousness,**

Cam
